i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/intro.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Introduction

TIDAS (TianGong LCA Data System) is an open-source JSON-based data structure system that provides standardized, extensible data management solutions.

TIDAS simplifies lifecycle data management processes:

  **Methodology Layer**: Lifecycle data management follows the [LCA/Carbon Footprint Database Construction Guidelines](https://www.carbonfootprint.network/docs/category/lca-database-guideline), fully compatible with [ISO 14040/44](https://www.iso.org/home.html), [ILCD Handbook](https://eplca.jrc.ec.europa.eu/ilcd.html) and [ecoinvent](https://www.ecoinvent.org/) standards.

  **Data Layer**: TIDAS adopts a unified data format based on JSON structure and JSON Schema validation, with high scalability and compatibility to support future domain-wide technical architectures (blockchain, data spaces, AI).

  **Conversion Layer**: TIDAS and eILCD have multi-language bidirectional lossless mapping services, enabling lossless data format conversion and interoperability with mainstream formats like eILCD, making data exchange between different systems simple and efficient.

  **Platform Layer**: [TianGong LCA Platform](https://docs.tiangong.earth/) can meet LCA data development and publishing needs, supporting both open platform and private deployment modes to satisfy different organizations' application requirements.

import TidasImage from '@site/src/components/TidasImage';

<TidasImage filename="TIDAS" />

The TianGong LCA platform will provide comprehensive support for your LCA data management and environmental impact assessment, helping you achieve more accurate results in sustainability research.

## TIDAS Framework

The TIDAS framework is an open-source JSON-based data structure system that provides standardized, extensible data management solutions. The TIDAS framework includes the following core components:

  - **`TIDAS-schemas`**: JSON-based schema validation ensuring data structure standardization.

  - **`tiangong-tool`**: Integrated tools for data import, export, validation, and publishing, supporting data platform module development.

  - **`TIDAS-EF`**: Provides standardized lifecycle data initialization packages, including unit processes, elementary flows, flow properties, LCIA method files, etc., ensuring data consistency.

  - **`TIDAS-convert`**: Multi-language bidirectional lossless mapping services with eILCD and other mainstream formats, enabling lossless data format conversion for efficient data exchange between different systems.

  - **`tiangong-lca-next-docs`**: Provides complete data management solutions for rapid data platform construction, supporting private deployment.

  - **[TianGong LCA Platform](https://docs.tiangong.earth/)**: Free and open LCA data management platform with data creation, editing, validation, and publishing features, ready to use upon registration.

## Guides

### [Quick Start](/docs/Tutorials)

If you're new to TIDAS, start here.

- Build your own LCA database
- [Deploy your own LCA platform on your system](https://docs.tiangong.earth/deploy/local-deploy)
- Directly use [TianGong LCA Platform](https://lca.tiangong.earth)

### [User Guide](/docs/category/user-guide)

1. [TIDAS schema deployment](/docs/user-guide/TIDAS-Schema)
2. [How to use TianGong LCA Platform](https://docs.tiangong.earth/)
3. [How to privately deploy TianGong LCA Platform](https://docs.tiangong.earth/deploy/local-deploy)

### [Concepts & Methodology](/docs/resources-and-support)

### [TIDAS-schema](/docs/user-guide/json-schema)

## Contribution

Want to contribute to this documentation? Check out our contribution guide.

Commit message:

update TIDAS documentation for clarity and structure, including new contribution guide and schema details

i18n/en/docusaurus-plugin-content-docs/current/intro.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# What is TIDAS

TIDAS (**TI**angong **DA**ta **S**ystem) is an open-source JSON-based data system that provides standardized, extensible data management solutions.

TIDAS simplifies lifecycle data management processes:

  **Methodology Layer**: Lifecycle data management follows the [LCA/Carbon Footprint Database Construction Guidelines](https://www.carbonfootprint.net/docs/category/lca-database-guideline), fully compatible with [ISO 14040/44](https://www.iso.org/home.html), [ILCD Handbook](https://eplca.jrc.ec.europa.eu/ilcd.html) and standards like [ecoinvent](https://www.ecoinvent.org/).

  **Data Layer**: TIDAS adopts a unified data format based on JSON structure and JSON Schema validation, offering high extensibility and compatibility to support future technologies (blockchain, data spaces, AI).

  **Conversion Layer**: TIDAS and eILCD provide multilingual bidirectional lossless mapping services, enabling seamless data format conversion and interoperability with mainstream formats like eILCD, simplifying data exchange between different systems.

  **Platform Layer**: [TianGong LCA Platform](https://docs.tiangong.earth/) fulfills LCA data development and publishing needs, supporting both open platform and private deployment modes to meet different organizational requirements.

import TidasImage from '@site/src/components/TidasImage';

<TidasImage filename="TIDAS" />

The TianGong LCA Platform provides comprehensive support for your LCA data management and environmental impact assessment, helping you achieve more accurate results in sustainability research.

## TIDAS Framework

The TIDAS framework is an open-source JSON-based data structure system that provides standardized, extensible data management solutions. The TIDAS framework includes these core components:

  - **`TIDAS-schemas`**: JSON-based schema validation ensuring data structure standardization.

  - **`TIDAS-tool`**: Integrated tools for data export, validation, publishing, supporting data platform module development.

  - **`tiangong-lca-next-doc`**: Complete data management solution for rapid platform development, supporting private deployment.

  - **[TianGong LCA Platform](https://docs.tiangong.earth/)**: Free open LCA data management platform with data creation, editing, validation, and publishing capabilities - ready to use upon registration.

## Guides

### [Quick Start](/docs/Tutorials)

If you're new to TIDAS, start here.

- Build your own LCA database
- [Deploy your own LCA platform locally](https://docs.tiangong.earth/deploy/local-deploy)
- Use [TianGong LCA Platform](https://lca.tiangong.earth) directly

### [TIDAS Architecture](/docs/category/TIDAS Schema)

1. [What is TIDAS schema](/docs/schema/TIDAS-Schema)
2. [TIDAS Tools Quick Start Guide](/docs/tool/TIDAS-tool)
3. [How to use TianGong LCA Platform for your data](https://docs.tiangong.earth/)
4. [How to privately deploy TianGong LCA Platform](https://docs.tiangong.earth/deploy/local-deploy)
5. [How to develop your own LCA platform](https://github.com/linancn/tiangong-lca-next)

### [Concepts & Methodology](/docs/resources-and-support)

### [TIDAS-schema](/docs/schema/json-schema)

## Contributing

Want to contribute to this documentation? See our [Contribution Guide](/docs/how-to-contribut-tidas-doc).
